1. PLoS One. 2021 Jul 23;16(7):e0255093. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0255093. 
eCollection 2021.

Rethinking remdesivir for COVID-19: A Bayesian reanalysis of trial findings.

Hoek JM(1), Field SM(1), de Vries YA(1), Linde M(1), Pittelkow MM(1), 
Muradchanian J(1), van Ravenzwaaij D(1).

Author information:
(1)Behavioural and Social Sciences, University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Following testing in clinical trials, the use of remdesivir for 
treatment of COVID-19 has been authorized for use in parts of the world, 
including the USA and Europe. Early authorizations were largely based on results 
from two clinical trials. A third study published by Wang et al. was 
underpowered and deemed inconclusive. Although regulators have shown an interest 
in interpreting the Wang et al. study, under a frequentist framework it is 
difficult to determine if the non-significant finding was caused by a lack of 
power or by the absence of an effect. Bayesian hypothesis testing does allow for 
quantification of evidence in favor of the absence of an effect.
FINDINGS: Results of our Bayesian reanalysis of the three trials show ambiguous 
evidence for the primary outcome of clinical improvement and moderate evidence 
against the secondary outcome of decreased mortality rate. Additional analyses 
of three studies published after initial marketing approval support these 
findings.
CONCLUSIONS: We recommend that regulatory bodies take all available evidence 
into account for endorsement decisions. A Bayesian approach can be beneficial, 
in particular in case of statistically non-significant results. This is 
especially pressing when limited clinical efficacy data is available.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0255093
PMCID: PMC8301659
PMID: 34297766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.