1. Clin Transl Sci. 2020 Sep;13(5):896-906. doi: 10.1111/cts.12840. Epub 2020 Aug 
5.

Safety, Tolerability, and Pharmacokinetics of Remdesivir, An Antiviral for 
Treatment of COVID-19, in Healthy Subjects.

Humeniuk R(1), Mathias A(1), Cao H(1), Osinusi A(1), Shen G(1), Chng E(1), Ling 
J(1), Vu A(1), German P(1).

Author information:
(1)Gilead Sciences, Inc., Foster City, California, USA.

Remdesivir (RDV), a single diastereomeric monophosphoramidate prodrug that 
inhibits viral RNA polymerases, has potent in vitro antiviral activity against 
severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). RDV received the 
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)'s emergency use authorization in the 
United States and approval in Japan for treatment of patients with severe 
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). This report describes two phase I studies 
that evaluated the safety and pharmacokinetics (PKs) of single escalating and 
multiple i.v. doses of RDV (solution or lyophilized formulation) in healthy 
subjects. Lyophilized formulation was evaluated for potential future use in 
clinical trials due to its storage stability in resource-limited settings. All 
adverse events were grade 1 or 2 in severity. Overall, RDV exhibited a linear 
profile following single-dose i.v. administration over 2 hours of RDV solution 
formulation across the dose range of 3-225 mg. Both lyophilized and solution 
formulations provided comparable PK parameters. High intracellular 
concentrations of the active triphosphate (~ 220-fold to 370-fold higher than 
the in vitro half-maximal effective concentration against SARS-CoV-2 clinical 
isolate) were achieved following infusion of 75 mg or 150 mg lyophilized 
formulation over 30 minutes or 2 hours. Following multiple-doses of RDV 150 mg 
once daily for 7 or 14 days, RDV exhibited a PK profile similar to single-dose 
administration. Metabolite GS-441524 accumulated ~ 1.9-fold after daily dosing. 
Overall, RDV exhibited favorable safety and PK profiles that supported 
once-daily dosing.

© 2020 The Authors. Clinical and Translational Science published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf the of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and 
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1111/cts.12840
PMCID: PMC7361781
PMID: 32589775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors are employees of Gilead Sciences.