1. Trials. 2020 Jul 13;21(1):639. doi: 10.1186/s13063-020-04548-z.

A Phase 3 Open-label, Randomized, Controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and 
Safety of Intravenously Administered Ravulizumab Compared with Best Supportive 
Care in Patients with COVID-19 Severe Pneumonia, Acute Lung Injury, or Acute 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome: A structured summary of a study protocol for a 
randomised controlled trial.

Smith K(1), Pace A(2), Ortiz S(3), Kazani S(4), Rottinghaus S(5).

Author information:
(1)Medical Writing, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Quantitative Sciences, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Clinical Pharmacology, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Clinical Development Sciences, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 
121 Seaport Boulevard, Boston, MA, 02210, USA.
(5)Department of Clinical Development Sciences, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 
121 Seaport Boulevard, Boston, MA, 02210, USA. Scott.Rottinghaus@alexion.com.

OBJECTIVES: Primary Objective • To evaluate the effect of ravulizumab, a 
long-acting complement (C5) inhibitor plus best supportive care (BSC) compared 
with BSC alone on the survival of patients with COVID-19. Secondary Objectives • 
Number of days free of mechanical ventilation at Day 29 • Duration of intensive 
care unit stay at Day 29 • Change from baseline in Sequential Organ Failure 
Assessment (SOFA) score at Day 29 • Change from baseline in peripheral capillary 
oxygen saturation/ fraction of inspired oxygen (SpO2 /FiO2) at Day 29 • Duration 
of hospitalization at Day 29 • Survival (based on all-cause mortality) at Day 60 
and Day 90 Safety • Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events and 
treatment-emergent serious adverse events. PK/PD/Immunogenicity • Change in 
serum ravulizumab concentrations over time • Change in serum free and total C5 
concentrations over time • Incidence and titer of anti-ALXN1210 antibodies 
Biomarkers • Change in absolute level of soluble biomarkers in blood associated 
with complement activation, inflammatory processes, and hypercoagulable states 
over time Exploratory • Incidence of progression to renal failure requiring 
dialysis at Day 29 • Time to clinical improvement (based on a modified 6-point 
ordinal scale) over 29 days • SF-12 Physical Component Summary (PCS) and Mental 
Component Summary (MCS) scores at Day 29 (or discharge), Day 60, and Day 90 • 
EuroQol 5-dimension 5-level (EQ-5D-5L) scores at Day 29 (or discharge), Day 60, 
and Day 90 TRIAL DESIGN: This is a multicenter Phase 3, open-label, randomized, 
controlled, study. The study is being conducted in acute care hospital settings 
in the United States, United Kingdom, Spain, France, Germany, and Japan.
PARTICIPANTS: Male or female patients at least 18 years of age, weighing ≥ 40 
kg, admitted to a designated hospital facility for treatment will be screened 
for eligibility in this study. Key Inclusion criteria • Confirmed diagnosis of 
SARS-CoV-2 infection (eg, via polymerase chain reaction [PCR] and/or antibody 
test) presenting as severe COVID-19 requiring hospitalization • Severe 
pneumonia, acute lung injury, or ARDS confirmed by computed tomography (CT) or 
X-ray at Screening or within the 3 days prior to Screening, as part of the 
patient's routine clinical care • Respiratory distress requiring mechanical 
ventilation, which can be either invasive (requiring endotracheal intubation) or 
non-invasive (with continuous positive airway pressure [CPAP] or bilevel 
positive airway pressure [BiPAP]) Key Exclusion criteria • Patient is not 
expected to survive for more than 24 hours • Patient is on invasive mechanical 
ventilation with intubation for more than 48 hours prior to Screening • Severe 
pre-existing cardiac disease (ie, NYHA Class 3 or Class 4, acute coronary 
syndrome, or persistent ventricular tachyarrhythmias) • Patient has an 
unresolved Neisseria meningitidis infection Excluded medications and therapies • 
Current treatment with a complement inhibitor • Intravenous immunoglobulin 
(IVIg) within 4 weeks prior to randomization on Day 1 Excluded prior/concurrent 
clinical study experience • Treatment with investigational therapy in a clinical 
study within 30 days before randomization, or within 5 half-lives of that 
investigational therapy, whichever is greater • Exceptions a. Investigational 
therapies will be allowed if received as part of best supportive care through an 
expanded access protocol or emergency approval for the treatment of COVID-19. b. 
Investigational antiviral therapies (such as remdesivir) will be allowed even if 
received as part of a clinical study.
INTERVENTION AND COMPARATOR: The study consists of a Screening Period of up to 3 
days, a Primary Evaluation Period of 4 weeks, a final assessment at Day 29, and 
a Follow-up Period of 8 weeks. For patients randomized to ravulizumab plus BSC, 
a weight-based dose of ravulizumab (≥40 to < 60 kg/2400 mg, 60 to < 100 kg/2700 
mg, ≥ 100 kg/3000 mg) will be administered on Day 1. On Day 5 and Day 10, 
additional doses of 600 mg (≥40 to <60 kg) or 900 mg (>60 kg) ravulizumab will 
be administered and on Day 15 patients will receive 900 mg ravulizumab. There is 
no active or placebo comparator in this open-label clinical trial. The total 
duration of each patient's participation is anticipated to be approximately 3 
months.
MAIN OUTCOMES: The primary efficacy outcome of this study is survival (based on 
all-cause mortality) at Day 29.
RANDOMISATION: Patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio (ravulizumab plus 
BSC:BSC alone). Randomization will be stratified by intubated or not intubated 
on Day 1. Computer-generated randomization lists will be prepared by a third 
party under the direction of the sponsor. Investigators, or designees, will 
enrol patients and then obtain randomization codes using an interactive 
voice/web response system. The block size will be kept concealed so that 
investigators cannot select patients for a particular treatment assignment. 
Blinding (masking): This is an open-label study. Numbers to be randomised 
(sample size): Approximately 270 patients will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 
ratio to ravulizumab plus BSC (n=180) or BSC alone (n=90).
TRIAL STATUS: Protocol Number: ALXN1210-COV-305 Original Protocol: 09 Apr 2020 
Protocol Amendment 1 (Global): 13 Apr 2020 Protocol Amendment 2 (Global): 17 Apr 
2020 Protocol Amendment 3 (Global): 09 Jun 2020 Recruitment is currently 
ongoing. Recruitment was initiated on 11 May 2020. We expect recruitment to be 
completed by 30 Nov 2020.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov: Protocol Registry Number: NCT04369469 ; 
First posted; 30 Apr 2020 EU Clinical Trials Register: EudraCT Number: 
https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=ALXN1210-COV-305 , 
Start date: 07 May 2020 FULL PROTOCOL: The full redacted protocol is attached as 
an additional file, accessible from the Trials website (Additional file 1). In 
the interest in expediting dissemination of this material, the familiar 
formatting has been eliminated; this Letter serves as a summary of the key 
elements of the full protocol.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-020-04548-z
PMCID: PMC7355517
PMID: 32660611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: KS, AP, SO, SK, and SR are employees and 
stockholders of Alexion Pharmaceuticals.