1. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2021 Jan 29;538:145-150. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.11.043. Epub 2020 Nov 19.

Remdesivir: From Ebola to COVID-19.

Santoro MG(1), Carafoli E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy; Institute 
of Translational Pharmacology, CNR, Rome, Italy. Electronic address: 
santoro@uniroma2.it.
(2)Venetian Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Padova, Italy. 
Electronic address: ernestocarafoli@gmail.com.

Human coronaviruses (HCoV) were discovered in the 1960s and were originally 
thought to cause only mild upper respiratory tract diseases in immunocompetent 
hosts. This view changed since the beginning of this century, with the 2002 SARS 
(severe acute respiratory syndrome) epidemic and the 2012 MERS (Middle East 
respiratory syndrome) outbreak, two zoonotic infections that resulted in 
mortality rates of approximately 10% and 35%, respectively. Despite the 
importance of these pathogens, no approved antiviral drugs for the treatment of 
human coronavirus infections became available. However, remdesivir, a nucleotide 
analogue prodrug originally developed for the treatment of Ebola virus, was 
found to inhibit the replication of a wide range of human and animal 
coronaviruses in vitro and in preclinical studies. It is therefore not 
surprising that when the highly pathogenic SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus emerged in 
late 2019 in China, causing global health concern due to the virus strong 
human-to-human transmission ability, remdesivir was one of the first clinical 
candidates that received attention. After in vitro studies had shown its 
antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2, and a first patient was successfully 
treated with the drug in the USA, a number of trials on remdesivir were 
initiated. Several had encouraging results, particularly the ACTT-1 double 
blind, randomized, and placebo controlled trial that has shown shortening of the 
time to recovery in hospitalized patients treated with remdesivir. The results 
of other trials were instead negative. Here, we provide an overview of 
remdesivir discovery, molecular mechanism of action, and initial and current 
clinical studies on its efficacy.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.11.043
PMCID: PMC7836944
PMID: 33388129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest All authors declare no 
conflict of interest