1. Travel Med Infect Dis. 2020 May-Jun;35:101647. doi: 10.1016/j.tmaid.2020.101647. 
Epub 2020 Apr 2.

Remdesivir for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 causing COVID-19: 
An evaluation of the evidence.

Cao YC(1), Deng QX(1), Dai SX(2).

Author information:
(1)The Second Clinical School, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, 
Guangdong, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Guangdong Provincial People's Hospital, 
Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, South China University of Technology, 
Guangzhou, 510080, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: shixuedai@hotmail.com.

Comment in
    Travel Med Infect Dis. 2020 Sep - Oct;37:101678.
    Travel Med Infect Dis. 2020 May - Jun;35:101710.

The novel coronavirus infection that initially found at the end of 2019 has 
attracted great attention. So far, the number of infectious cases has increased 
globally to more than 100 thousand and the outbreak has been defined as a 
pandemic situation, but there are still no "specific drug" available. Relevant 
reports have pointed out the novel coronavirus has 80% homology with SARS. In 
the difficulty where new synthesized drug cannot be applied immediately to 
patients, "conventional drug in new use" becomes a feasible solution. The first 
medication experience of the recovered patients in the US has led remdesivir to 
be the "specific drug". China has also taken immediate action to put remdesivir 
into clinical trials with the purpose of applying it into clinical therapeutics 
for Corona Virus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). We started from the structure, 
immunogenicity, and pathogenesis of coronavirus infections of the novel 
coronavirus. Further, we analyzed the pharmacological actions and previous 
trials of remdesivir to identify the feasibility of conducting experiments on 
COVID-19.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tmaid.2020.101647
PMCID: PMC7151266
PMID: 32247927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
report no conflicts.