1. Transplant Cell Ther. 2021 Sep;27(9):796.e1-796.e7. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtct.2021.07.005. Epub 2021 Jul 10.

Impact of SARS-CoV-2 in Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation and Chimeric 
Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy Recipients.

Mushtaq MU(1), Shahzad M(2), Chaudhary SG(2), Luder M(2), Ahmed N(2), Abdelhakim 
H(2), Bansal R(2), Balusu R(2), DeJarnette S(2), Divine C(2), Kribs R(2), Shune 
L(2), Singh AK(2), Ganguly S(2), Abhyankar SH(2), McGuirk JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematologic Malignancies and Cellular Therapeutics, University of 
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS. Electronic address: mushtaqmu@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Hematologic Malignancies and Cellular Therapeutics, University of 
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), a respiratory illness caused by the novel 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), was declared a 
pandemic in March 2020, and has caused more than 600,000 deaths in the United 
States at the time of this report. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) 
or chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) therapy recipients have a higher 
risk of mortality with COVID-19 owing to profound immune dysregulation. In this 
study, we investigated the impact of SARS-CoV-2 in HCT/CAR-T therapy recipients. 
This single-center prospective study included all (n = 58) adult HCT/CAR-T 
recipients who were diagnosed with COVID-19 at the University of Kansas Medical 
Center between March 2020 and May 2021. Baseline and disease-related 
characteristics were ascertained from medical records. Data were analyzed using 
SPSS version 21 (IBM, Armonk, NY). Bivariate analyses, using the chi-square and 
t-test, and logistic regression analyses were conducted. The study included 58 
HCT/CAR-T patients who acquired SARS-CoV-2 infection, including recipients of 
allogeneic HCT (n = 32), autologous HCT (n = 23), and CAR-T therapy (n = 3). The 
median patient age was 58 years (range, 24 to 77 years), and 64% were males. The 
median time from HCT/CAR-T therapy to SARS-CoV-2 infection was 17.7 months 
(range, 0.2 to 201.9 months), and 22% of the patients acquired SARS-CoV-2 within 
the first 100 days post-HCT/CAR-T therapy. The primary hematologic disorders 
were plasma cell (36%), myeloid (38%), and lymphoid (26%) malignancies. 
Myeloablative conditioning was performed in 62% of patients. Donors were 
autologous (45%), matched sibling (15%), matched unrelated (21%), and 
haploidentical (19%). Prior history of grade II-IV acute graft-versus-host 
disease (GVHD), active GVHD, and current immunosuppressive therapy (IST) was 
noted in 22%, 31%, and 36% of patients, respectively. Concurrent infections were 
observed in 19%. Lymphopenia (P = .049) and high serum ferritin concentration 
(P = .020) were associated with mortality. COVID-19 severity was mild in 50% of 
the patients, moderate in 22%, and severe in 28%. Clinical findings included 
pneumonia or abnormal chest imaging (in 50%), hypoxia (28%), intensive care unit 
admission (19%), and mechanical ventilation (10%). Therapies included remdesivir 
(in 41%), convalescent plasma (35%), dexamethasone (22%), monoclonal antibodies 
(19%), and tocilizumab (3%). The median duration of viral shedding (positive 
SARS-CoV-2 PCR) was 7.7 weeks (range, 2 to 18.7 weeks), and 2 patients had a 
persistent infection for >5 months post-CAR-T therapy. After a median follow-up 
of 6.1 months (range, 0.5-13.6 months), the mortality rate was 16% in all 
patients and 28% in allogeneic HCT recipients. Among 9 patients who died, the 
median survival after SARS-CoV-2 infection was 23 days (range, 14 to 140 days). 
In survivors with moderate-severe COVID-19, the median time to recovery was 4.2 
weeks (range, 1.1 to 24.7 weeks). Among allogeneic HCT recipients, 5 (16%) 
developed subsequent pulmonary chronic GVHD necessitating systemic steroids and 
additional IST. Significant predictors of COVID-19 severity included allogeneic 
HCT (odds ratio [OR], 3.6, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.2 to 10.8; P = .020), 
history of grade II-IV acute GVHD (OR, 4.6; 95% CI, 1.10 to 18.86; P = .036) and 
concurrent IST (OR, 5.9; 95% CI, 1.8 to 19.8; P = .004). HCT and CAR-T cell 
therapy recipients are at an increased risk of moderate-severe COVID-19 
pneumonia and higher mortality with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our findings confirm 
the need for continuing vigilance with social distancing and masks, vaccination 
prioritization, close monitoring, and aggressive treatment of HCT/CAR-T therapy 
recipients.

Copyright © 2021 The American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtct.2021.07.005
PMCID: PMC8272625
PMID: 34256172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]