1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2021 Sep 20:AAC0077221. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00772-21. 
Online ahead of print.

The natural stilbenoid (-)-hopeaphenol inhibits cellular entry of SARS-CoV-2 
USA-WA1/2020, B.1.1.7 and B.1.351 variants.

Tietjen I(1), Cassel J(1), Register ET(1), Zhou XY(1), Messick TE(1), Keeney 
F(1), Lu LD(1), Beattie KD(2), Rali T(3), Tebas P(4), Ertl HCJ(1), Salvino 
JM(1), Davis RA(2), Montaner LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)The Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(2)Griffith Institute for Drug Discovery, School of Environment and Science, 
Griffith University, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(3)School of Natural and Physical Sciences, The University of Papua New Guinea, 
Port Moresby, PNG.
(4)Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA.

Antivirals are urgently needed to combat the global SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 
pandemic, supplement existing vaccine efforts, and target emerging SARS-CoV-2 
variants of concern. Small molecules that interfere with binding of the viral 
spike receptor binding domain (RBD) to the host ACE2 receptor may be effective 
inhibitors of SARS-CoV-2 cell entry. Here we screened 512 pure compounds derived 
from natural products using a high-throughput RBD/ACE2 binding assay and 
identified (-)-hopeaphenol, a resveratrol tetramer, in addition to vatalbinoside 
A and vaticanol B, as potent and selective inhibitors of RBD/ACE2 binding and 
viral entry. For example, (-)-hopeaphenol disrupted RBD/ACE2 binding with a 50% 
inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 0.11 μM in contrast to an IC50 of 28.3 μM 
against the unrelated host ligand/receptor binding pair PD-1/PD-L1 (selectivity 
index = 257.3). When assessed against the USA-WA1/2020 variant, (-)-hopeaphenol 
also inhibited entry of a VSVΔG-GFP reporter pseudovirus expressing SARS-CoV-2 
spike into ACE2-expressing Vero-E6 cells and in vitro replication of infectious 
virus in cytopathic effect and yield reduction assays (50% effective 
concentrations (EC50s) = 10.2 - 23.4 μM) without cytotoxicity and approaching 
the activities of the control antiviral remdesivir (EC50s = 1.0 - 7.3 μM). 
Notably, (-)-hopeaphenol also inhibited two emerging variants of concern 
including B.1.1.7/"Alpha" and B.1.351/"Beta" in both viral and spike-containing 
pseudovirus assays with similar or improved activities over the USA-WA1/2020 
variant. These results identify (-)-hopeaphenol and related stilbenoid analogues 
as potent and selective inhibitors of viral entry across multiple SARS-CoV-2 
variants of concern.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00772-21
PMID: 34543092