1. J Med Virol. 2021 Mar;93(3):1702-1721. doi: 10.1002/jmv.26548. Epub 2020 Oct 8.

Genomic and proteomic mutation landscapes of SARS-CoV-2.

Badua CLDC(1), Baldo KAT(1), Medina PMB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Biological Models 
Laboratory, University of the Philippines Manila, Ermita, Manila, Philippines.

The ongoing pandemic caused by a novel coronavirus, Severe Acute Respiratory 
Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), affects thousands of people every day 
worldwide. Hence, drugs and vaccines effective against all variants of 
SARS-CoV-2 are crucial today. Viral genome mutations exist commonly which may 
impact the encoded proteins, possibly resulting to varied effectivity of 
detection tools and disease treatment. Thus, this study surveyed the SARS-CoV-2 
genome and proteome and evaluated its mutation characteristics. Phylogenetic 
analyses of SARS-CoV-2 genes and proteins show three major clades and one minor 
clade (P6810S; ORF1ab). The overall frequency and densities of mutations in the 
genes and proteins of SARS-CoV-2 were observed. Nucleocapsid exhibited the 
highest mutation density among the structural proteins while the spike D614G was 
the most common, occurring mostly in genomes outside China and United States. 
ORF8 protein had the highest mutation density across all geographical areas. 
Moreover, mutation hotspots neighboring and at the catalytic site of 
RNA-dependent RNA polymerase were found that might challenge the binding and 
effectivity of remdesivir. Mutation coldspots may present as conserved 
diagnostic and therapeutic targets were found in ORF7b, ORF9b, and ORF14. These 
findings suggest that the virion's genotype and phenotype in a specific 
population should be considered in developing diagnostic tools and treatment 
options.

Â© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.26548
PMCID: PMC7537117
PMID: 32970329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]