1. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Apr 6;22(7):3773. doi: 10.3390/ijms22073773.

Corticosteroids for COVID-19 Therapy: Potential Implications on Tuberculosis.

Gopalaswamy R(1), Subbian S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, ICMR-National Institute for Research in 
Tuberculosis, Chennai 600031, India.
(2)Public Health Research Institute at New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers 
University, 225 Warren Street, Newark, NJ 08854, USA.

On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organization announced the Corona Virus 
Disease-2019 (COVID-19) as a global pandemic, which originated in China. At the 
host level, COVID-19, caused by the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome 
Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), affects the respiratory system, with the clinical 
symptoms ranging from mild to severe or critical illness that often requires 
hospitalization and oxygen support. There is no specific therapy for COVID-19, 
as is the case for any common viral disease except drugs to reduce the viral 
load and alleviate the inflammatory symptoms. Tuberculosis (TB), an infectious 
disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), also primarily affects the 
lungs and has clinical signs similar to pulmonary SARS-CoV-2 infection. Active 
TB is a leading killer among infectious diseases and adds to the burden of the 
COVID-19 pandemic worldwide. In immunocompetent individuals, primary Mtb 
infection can also lead to a non-progressive, asymptomatic latency. However, 
latent Mtb infection (LTBI) can reactivate symptomatic TB disease upon host 
immune-suppressing conditions. Importantly, the diagnosis and treatment of TB 
are hampered and admixed with COVID-19 control measures. The US-Center for 
Disease Control (US-CDC) recommends using antiviral drugs, Remdesivir or 
corticosteroid (CST), such as dexamethasone either alone or in-combination with 
specific recommendations for COVID-19 patients requiring hospitalization or 
oxygen support. However, CSTs can cause immunosuppression, besides their 
anti-inflammatory properties. The altered host immunity during COVID-19, 
combined with CST therapy, poses a significant risk for new secondary infections 
and/or reactivation of existing quiescent infections, such as LTBI. This review 
highlights CST therapy recommendations for COVID-19, various types and 
mechanisms of action of CSTs, the deadly combination of two respiratory 
infectious diseases COVID-19 and TB. It also discusses the importance of 
screening for LTBI to prevent TB reactivation during corticosteroid therapy for 
COVID-19.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22073773
PMCID: PMC8038708
PMID: 33917321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.