1. Clin Transplant. 2021 Jul 28:10.1111/ctr.14443. doi: 10.1111/ctr.14443. Online 
ahead of print.

Low mortality in SARS-CoV-2 infected heart transplant recipients at a single 
center.

Duran JM(1), Barat M(1), Lin AY(1), King KR(1), Greenberg B(1), Adler ED(1), 
Aslam S(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of 
California San Diego Sulpizio Cardiovascular Center, La Jolla, California, USA.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases and Global Public Health, Department of 
Internal Medicine, University of California San Diego Sulpizio Cardiovascular 
Center, La Jolla, California, USA.

Immunosuppressed heart transplant (HT) recipients are thought to be at higher 
risk of infection and mortality from SARS-CoV-2 infection coronavirus disease 
2019 (COVID-19), however evidence guiding management of HT patients are limited. 
Retrospective search of electronic health records from February 2020 - February 
2021, identified 28 HT recipients out of 400 followed by UC San Diego who tested 
positive for SARS-CoV-2. Patient demographics, COVID-19 directed therapies, 
hospital course and outcomes were compared to control HT recipients who tested 
negative for SARS-CoV-2 during the same period (n = 80). Among 28 HT recipients 
who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, 15 were admitted to the hospital and 13 were 
monitored closely as outpatients. Among inpatients, five developed severe 
illness and two died (7% mortality). Nine patients were treated with remdesivir, 
and four received dexamethasone and remdesivir. Two outpatients received 
neutralizing monoclonal antibody therapy and one outpatient received 
dexamethasone for persistent dyspnea. Immunosuppressed HT recipients, especially 
Hispanic patients and patients with higher body mass index, were at greater risk 
of infection and mortality from COVID-19 than the general population. Use of 
remdesivir and dexamethasone may have improved outcomes in our HT recipients 
compared to HT recipients at other centers. This article is protected by 
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/ctr.14443
PMCID: PMC8420241
PMID: 34320235