1. Am J Epidemiol. 2020 Nov 2;189(11):1218-1226. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwaa093.

Early Outpatient Treatment of Symptomatic, High-Risk COVID-19 Patients That 
Should Be Ramped Up Immediately as Key to the Pandemic Crisis.

Risch HA.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2020 Nov 2;189(11):1444-1449.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2020 Nov 2;189(11):1227-1229.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2020 Nov 2;189(11):1442-1443.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2021 Apr 6;190(4):491-495.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2021 Jul 1;190(7):1435-1436.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2021 Jul 1;190(7):1434-1435.

More than 1.6 million Americans have been infected with severe acute respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), and more than 10 times that number carry 
antibodies to it. High-risk patients with progressing symptomatic disease 
currently have only hospitalization treatment, with its high mortality, 
available to them. An outpatient treatment that prevents hospitalization is 
desperately needed. Two candidate medications have been widely discussed: 
remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) + azithromycin (AZ). Remdesivir has 
shown mild effectiveness in hospitalized inpatients, but no trials in 
outpatients have been registered. HCQ + AZ has been widely misrepresented in 
both clinical reports and public media, and results of outpatient trials are not 
expected until September. Early outpatient illness is very different from later 
florid disease requiring hospitalization, and the treatments differ. Evidence 
about use of HCQ alone, or of HCQ + AZ in inpatients, is irrelevant with regard 
to the efficacy of HCQ + AZ in early high-risk outpatient disease. Five studies, 
including 2 controlled clinical trials, have demonstrated significant major 
outpatient treatment efficacy. HCQ + AZ has been used as the standard of care in 
more than 300,000 older adults with multiple comorbid conditions; the estimated 
proportion of such patients diagnosed with cardiac arrhythmia attributable to 
the medications is 47 per 100,000 users, among whom estimated mortality is less 
than 20% (9/100,000 users), as compared with the 10,000 Americans now dying each 
week. These medications need to be made widely available and promoted 
immediately for physicians to prescribe.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwaa093
PMCID: PMC7546206
PMID: 32458969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]