1. Carbohydr Polym. 2021 Jul 15;264:118011. doi: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2021.118011. 
Epub 2021 Apr 7.

Sulfobutylether-beta-cyclodextrin-enabled antiviral remdesivir: Characterization 
of electrospun- and lyophilized formulations.

Szente L(1), Puskás I(2), Sohajda T(2), Varga E(2), Vass P(3), Nagy ZK(3), 
Farkas A(3), Várnai B(4), Béni S(4), Hazai E(5).

Author information:
(1)CycloLab Cyclodextrin R&D Laboratory Ltd., H-1097, Budapest, Illatos út 7., 
Hungary. Electronic address: szente@cyclolab.hu.
(2)CycloLab Cyclodextrin R&D Laboratory Ltd., H-1097, Budapest, Illatos út 7., 
Hungary.
(3)Budapest University of Technology and Economics, H-1111, Budapest, Műegyetem 
rkp. 3, Hungary.
(4)Semmelweis University, Department of Pharmacognosy, Budapest, Üllői út 26, 
Hungary.
(5)Virtua Drug, Ltd., H-1015, Budapest, Csalogány utca 4C, Hungary.

Veklury™ by Gilead Sciences, Inc., containing antiviral drug, remdesivir (REM) 
has received emergency authorization in the USA and in Europe for COVID-19 
therapy. Here, for the first time, we describe details of the non-covalent, 
host-guest type interaction between REM and the solubilizing excipient, 
sulfobutylether-beta-cyclodextrin (SBECD) that results in significant solubility 
enhancement. Complete amorphousness of the cyclodextrin-enabled REM formulation 
was demonstrated by X-ray diffraction, thermal analysis, Raman chemical mapping 
and electron microscopy/energy dispersive spectroscopy. The use of solubilizing 
carbohydrate resulted in a 300-fold improvement of the aqueous solubility of 
REM, and enhanced dissolution rate of the drug enabling the preparation of 
stable infusion solutions for therapy. 2D ROESY NMR spectroscopy provided 
information on the nature of REM-excipient interaction and indicated the 
presence of inclusion phenomenon and the electrostatic attraction between 
anionic SBECD and nitrogen-containing REM in aqueous solution.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2021.118011
PMCID: PMC8025548
PMID: 33910715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no conflict of interest.