1. Infect Agent Cancer. 2020 Dec 1;15(1):73. doi: 10.1186/s13027-020-00338-z.

FDA efficiency for approval process of COVID-19 therapeutics.

Cassidy C(1), Dever D(1), Stanbery L(2), Edelman G(1), Dworkin L(1), Nemunaitis 
J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toledo, College and Life Sciences, 
Toledo, OH, USA.
(2)Gradalis, Inc, Carrollton, TX, USA.
(3)Gradalis, Inc, Carrollton, TX, USA. johnnemunaitis@gmail.com.

Coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) is an infection caused by the novel Severe 
Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). The pandemic spread of 
SARS-CoV-2 has resulted in significant health, economic, and social 
ramifications. There are no U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved 
prophylactic or therapeutic treatment options for COVID-19. This puts 
unprecedented product development pressure on the medical science community to 
define treatment options. Additionally, in the United States of American (USA) 
further regulatory and quality assurance pressures impact the FDA. The 
regulatory therapeutic development process is complex as it relates to product 
mechanism, toxicity profile, and level of efficacy. The advert of a worldwide 
pandemic however, advanced efficiencies within many of the regulatory agencies 
worldwide in order to facilitate COVID-19 treatment option development within 
the USA. Clinical drug development pathways can include several established 
approaches: investigational new drug (IND), expanded access IND, emergency IND, 
treatment IND, and emergency use authorization (EUA). Remdesivir, an 
investigational drug, and hydroxyloroquine, an FDA-approved drug for autoimmune 
diseases, were the two early potential therapies. This review article examines 
the expedited FDA review process for remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine, and 
analyzes data and results from early clinical studies of both drugs.

DOI: 10.1186/s13027-020-00338-z
PMCID: PMC7705854
PMID: 33292374

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
disclose.