1. Khirurgiia (Mosk). 2020;(6):90-97. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia202006190.

[Drug treatment of coronavirus disease COVID-19: evidence exists?].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Timerbulatov SV(1), Timerbulstov MV(1), Gainullina EN(1), Gafarova AR(1), 
Timerbulatov VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Bashkir State Medical University, Ufa, Russia.

The article provides a review of foreign literature for 2020 on existing methods 
of drug treatment of coronavirus disease COVID-19. To date, in the treatment of 
COVID-19 in different countries, a little more than 10 drugs are used. The 
largest number of studies on the testing of these drugs is carried out by 
scientists from China, the USA, and European countries. It should be noted that 
among these drugs there is not a single new drug developed specifically for the 
treatment of COVID-19, the recommended and used drugs have previously been used 
to treat, as a rule, diseases of the viral etiology, less often another 
pathology. These suggestions are often based on analogy, the hypothesis of their 
supposed effectiveness for COVID-19. It can be assumed that a brake on the 
development of a drug specific for coronavirus disease is a poor knowledge of 
the pathogenesis of virus invasion in the body's adhesives and the development 
of complications. The review provides detailed literature data on drugs such as 
hydroxychloroquine / chloroquine, lopinavir/natinavir, remdesivir, ACE 
inhibitors and angiotensin converting enzyme receptor blockers, tissue 
plasminogen activator, as well as plasma transfusion transfusions.

Publisher: В статье представлен обзор иностранной литературы за 2020 г. по 
имеющимся методам медикаментозного лечения коронавирусной болезни COVID-19. К 
настоящему времени при лечении COVID-19 в мире используется чуть больше 10 
препаратов, наибольшее число исследований по их апробации проводится учеными 
Китая, США, стран Европы. Однако нет ни одного нового лекарственного средства, 
разработанного специально для лечения COVID-19; рекомендуемые и используемые 
средства ранее применялись для лечения заболеваний вирусной этиологии, реже — 
другой патологии. Предложения чаще основываются на аналогии, гипотезе о 
предполагаемой эффективности препаратов и для COVID-19. Можно предположить, что 
основным фактором, препятствующим разработке специфического для коронавирусной 
болезни лекарственного средства, является слабое знание патогенеза инвазии 
вируса в клетки организма и развития осложнений. В обзоре подробно представлены 
данные литературы о таких препаратах, как гидроксихлорохин/хлорохин, 
лопинавир/натинавир, ремдесивир, ингибиторы АПФ и блокаторы рецепторов 
ангиотензинпревращающего фермента, активатор тканевого плазминогена, а также о 
процедуре переливания плазмы реконвалесцентов.

DOI: 10.17116/hirurgia202006190
PMID: 32573538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]