1. Anal Methods. 2021 Jun 21;13(23):2596-2602. doi: 10.1039/d1ay00469g. Epub 2021 
May 21.

Green and sensitive spectrofluorimetric determination of Remdesivir, an FDA 
approved SARS-CoV-2 candidate antiviral; application in pharmaceutical dosage 
forms and spiked human plasma.

Elmansi H (1), Ibrahim AE , Mikhail IE , Belal F .

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura 
University, Egypt.

Fluorescence spectroscopy has gained much attention over the last few years. Its 
advantages cover both analytical performance as well as ecological greenness. 
The quality control of pharmaceuticals requires sensitive, fast and economic 
methodologies to provide a high throughput at desirable costs. The low energy 
and decreased solvent consumption make this technique green as well as economic, 
and hence it is much preferred by pharmaceutical industries. Remdesivir is a 
recent antiviral, previously used for the treatment of Ebola virus infections, 
which was approved by the US-FDA in 2020 for treatment of infections caused by 
SARS-CoV-2 virus. Formulation and wide-scale production of this drug started 
recently and hence methodologies related to its quality control are highly 
required. A smart spectrofluorimetric method was validated as per the US-FDA 
guidelines for the facile estimation of Remdesivir. The assay of Remdesivir was 
based on its native fluorescence measurements at pH 4 and wavelengths of 244/405 
nm. Calibration was achieved over the range of 1.0-65.0 ng mL-1. Different 
variables affecting the proposed methodology were studied to achieve maximum 
sensitivity, at limits of detection and quantification of 0.287 and 0.871 ng 
mL-1, respectively. The developed method is regarded as the first 
spectrofluorimetric one for the estimation of Remdesivir. The developed method 
was also utilized for the determination of the drug in its formulated IV 
infusion and in spiked human plasma. Statistical analysis verified that this 
method is accurate and reproducible. Moreover, the ecological impact of the 
developed procedures was evaluated on two recently reported assessment metrics, 
the Green Analytical Procedure Index (GAPI) and AGREE-analytical greenness 
metric, to emphasize the greenness of the procedure.

DOI: 10.1039/d1ay00469g
PMID: 34019051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]