1. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2021 Aug 5:1-6. doi: 10.1080/14740338.2021.1962846. Online 
ahead of print.

Assessment of adverse events associated with remdesivir use for coronavirus 
disease 2019 using real-world data.

Singh A(1), Kamath A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kasturba Medical College, Mangalore, Manipal 
Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, India.

Background: Remdesivir has been used for treating patients with moderate to 
severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) although there is conflicting 
evidence regarding its usefulness. Data regarding its safety largely come from 
the clinical trials conducted to support its emergency use authorization (EUA). 
This study aimed to identify the adverse events of remdesivir with 
disproportionately high reporting using real-world data.Research design and 
methods: The adverse event reports submitted to the United States Food and Drug 
Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) by health-care 
professionals for drugs that have received EUA or approved for the treatment of 
COVID-19 in the US were studied. Adisproportionality analysis was performed to 
determine adverse events more frequently reported with remdesivir compared with 
other COVID-19 drugs in the database.Results: Elevated liver enzymes, acute 
kidney injury, raised blood creatinine levels, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, and 
death had disproportionately higher reporting with remdesivir as asuspect drug 
compared with other drugs. There is no significant difference in the reporting 
of these events based on patient sex or age.Conclusions: Our study confirms the 
drug label information regarding liver enzyme elevation. The renal and cardiac 
safety signals identified necessitate reevaluation for potential drug-labeling 
changes.

DOI: 10.1080/14740338.2021.1962846
PMID: 34328807