1. Int Immunopharmacol. 2021 Jan;90:107232. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.107232. Epub 
2020 Nov 30.

A comparative analysis for anti-viral drugs: Their efficiency against 
SARS-CoV-2.

Kivrak A(1), Ulaş B(2), Kivrak H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, Van Yuzuncu Yil University, 
65000 Van, Turkey. Electronic address: akivrak@yyu.edu.tr.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Van Yuzuncu Yil 
University, 65000 Van, Turkey.

Coronavirus, known as the coronavirus pandemic, is continuing its spread across 
the world, with over 42 million confirmed cases in 189 countries and more than 
1.15 million deaths. Although, scientists focus on the finding novel drugs and 
vaccine for SARS-CoV-2, there is no certain treatment for it. Antiviral drugs 
such as; oseltamivir, favipiravir, umifenovir, lopinavir, remdesivir, 
hydroxychloroquine, chloroquine, azithromycin, ascorbic acid, corticosteroids, 
are mostly used for patients. They prevent cytokine storm that is the main 
reason of deaths related to SARS-CoV-2. In addition, anti-inflammatory agents 
have critical roles to inhibit the lung injury and multisystem organ 
dysfunction. The combination with anti-viral drugs with other drugs displays 
high synergistic effects. In the present study, the drugs used for Covid-19 are 
analyzed and compare the efficiency for the Covid-19 patients from the different 
continents including USA, South Korea, Italy, Spain, Germany, Russia, Brazil, 
Turkey, and China. Nowadays, all countries tried to find vaccine and new drug 
candidates for SARS-CoV-2, but anti-viral drugs may be the best candidates for 
the treatment of Covid-19 before finding novel anti-Covid drug.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.107232
PMCID: PMC7703546
PMID: 33290969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.