1. Open Forum Infect Dis. 2020 Aug 6;7(10):ofaa319. doi: 10.1093/ofid/ofaa319. 
eCollection 2020 Oct.

Remdesivir Use Compared With Supportive Care in Hospitalized Patients With 
Severe COVID-19: A Single-Center Experience.

Kalligeros M(1), Tashima KT(1), Mylona EK(1), Rybak N(1), Flanigan TP(1), 
Farmakiotis D(1), Beckwith CG(1), Sanchez M(1), Neill M(1), Johnson JE(1), 
Garland JM(1), Aung S(1), Byrd KM(1), O'Brien T(1), Pandita A(1), Aridi J(1), 
Macias Gil R(1), Larkin J(1), Shehadeh F(1), Mylonakis E(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Division, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown 
University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.

BACKGROUND: The US Food and Drug Administration issued an Emergency Use 
Authorization for remdesivir use in patients with severe COVID-19.
METHODS: We utilized data from 2 quaternary acute care hospitals. The outcomes 
of interest were the impact of remdesivir on in-hospital death by day 28 and 
time to recovery, clinical improvement, and discharge. We utilized Cox 
proportional hazards models and stratified log-rank tests.
RESULTS: Two hundred twenty-four patients were included in the study. The median 
age was 59 years; 67.0% were male; 17/125 patients (13.6%) who received 
supportive care and 7/99 patients (7.1%) who received remdesivir died. The 
unadjusted risk for 28-day in-hospital death was lower for patients who received 
remdesivir compared with patients who received supportive care (hazard ratio 
[HR], 0.42; 95% CI, 0.16-1.08). Although this trend remained the same after 
adjusting for age, sex, race, and oxygen requirements on admission (adjusted HR 
[aHR], 0.49; 95% CI, 0.19-1.28), as well as chronic comorbidities and use of 
corticosteroids (aHR, 0.44; 95% CI, 0.16-1.23), it did not reach statistical 
significance. The use of remdesivir was not associated with an increased risk of 
acute kidney injury (AKI) or liver test abnormalities. Although not 
statistically significant, the rate ratios for time to recovery, clinical 
improvement, and discharge were higher in women and black or African American 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients on remdesivir had lower, albeit not significant, all-cause 
in-hospital mortality, and the use of remdesivir did not increase the risk for 
AKI. Promising signals from this study need to be confirmed by future 
placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/ofid/ofaa319
PMCID: PMC7454852
PMID: 33117850