1. Curr Med Chem. 2020;27(27):4536-4541. doi: 10.2174/0929867327666200416131117.

SARS-CoV-2: Recent Reports on Antiviral Therapies Based on Lopinavir/Ritonavir, 
Darunavir/Umifenovir, Hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir, Favipiravir and other 
Drugs for the Treatment of the New Coronavirus.

Costanzo M(1), De Giglio MAR(2), Roviello GN(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology, School of 
Medicine, University of Naples 'Federico II', Via S. Pansini 5, I-80131 Naples, 
Italy.
(2)School of Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples 'Federico II', Via S. 
Pansini 5, I-80131 Naples, Italy.
(3)Instituto di Biostrutture e Bioimmagini IBB - CNR; Via Mezzocannone 16, 
I-80134 Naples, Italy.

Here we report on the most recent updates on experimental drugs successfully 
employed in the treatment of the disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, also 
referred to as COVID-19 (COronaVIrus Disease-19). In particular, several cases 
of recovered patients have been reported after being treated with 
lopinavir/ritonavir [which is widely used to treat Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
(HIV) infection] in combination with the anti-flu drug oseltamivir. In addition, 
remdesivir, which has been previously administered to Ebola virus patients, has 
also proven effective in the U.S. against coronavirus, while antimalarial 
chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, favipiravir and co-administered darunavir 
and umifenovir (in patient therapies) were also recently recorded as having 
anti-SARS-CoV-2 effects. Since the recoveries/deaths ratio in the last weeks 
significantly increased, especially in China, it is clear that the experimental 
antiviral therapy, together with the availability of intensive care unit beds in 
hospitals and rigorous government control measures, all play an important role 
in dealing with this virus. This also stresses the urgent need for the 
scientific community to devote its efforts to the development of other more 
specific antiviral strategies.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867327666200416131117
PMID: 32297571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]