1. Clin Ther. 2021 May;43(5):871-885. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2021.03.016. Epub 
2021 Mar 29.

Machine Learning as a Precision-Medicine Approach to Prescribing COVID-19 
Pharmacotherapy with Remdesivir or Corticosteroids.

Lam C(1), Siefkas A(2), Zelin NS(1), Barnes G(1), Dellinger RP(3), Vincent 
JL(4), Braden G(5), Burdick H(6), Hoffman J(1), Calvert J(1), Mao Q(1), Das 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Dascena Inc, Houston, Texas.
(2)Dascena Inc, Houston, Texas. Electronic address: asiefkas@dascena.com.
(3)Division of Critical Care Medicine, Cooper University Hospital/Cooper Medical 
School, Rowan University, Camden, New Jersey.
(4)Department of Intensive Care, Erasme University Hospital, Université Libre, 
Brussels, Belgium.
(5)Kidney Care and Transplant Associates of New England, Springfield, 
Massachusetts.
(6)Cabell Huntington Hospital, Huntington, West Virginia; School of Medicine, 
Marshall University, Huntington, West Virginia.

PURPOSE: Coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) continues to be a global threat and 
remains a significant cause of hospitalizations. Recent clinical guidelines have 
supported the use of corticosteroids or remdesivir in the treatment of COVID-19. 
However, uncertainty remains about which patients are most likely to benefit 
from treatment with either drug; such knowledge is crucial for avoiding 
preventable adverse effects, minimizing costs, and effectively allocating 
resources. This study presents a machine-learning system with the capacity to 
identify patients in whom treatment with a corticosteroid or remdesivir is 
associated with improved survival time.
METHODS: Gradient-boosted decision-tree models used for predicting treatment 
benefit were trained and tested on data from electronic health records dated 
between December 18, 2019, and October 18, 2020, from adult patients (age ≥18 
years) with COVID-19 in 10 US hospitals. Models were evaluated for performance 
in identifying patients with longer survival times when treated with a 
corticosteroid versus remdesivir. Fine and Gray proportional-hazards models were 
used for identifying significant findings in treated and nontreated patients, in 
a subset of patients who received supplemental oxygen, and in patients 
identified by the algorithm. Inverse probability-of-treatment weights were used 
to adjust for confounding. Models were trained and tested separately for each 
treatment.
FINDINGS: Data from 2364 patients were included, with men comprising slightly 
more than 50% of the sample; 893 patients were treated with remdesivir, and 1471 
were treated with a corticosteroid. After adjustment for confounding, neither 
corticosteroids nor remdesivir use was associated with increased survival time 
in the overall population or in the subpopulation that received supplemental 
oxygen. However, in the populations identified by the algorithms, both 
corticosteroids and remdesivir were significantly associated with an increase in 
survival time, with hazard ratios of 0.56 and 0.40, respectively (both, 
P = 0.04).
IMPLICATIONS: Machine-learning methods have the capacity to identify 
hospitalized patients with COVID-19 in whom treatment with a corticosteroid or 
remdesivir is associated with an increase in survival time. These methods may 
help to improve patient outcomes and allocate resources during the COVID-19 
crisis.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2021.03.016
PMCID: PMC8006198
PMID: 33865643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]