1. Sci Rep. 2021 Sep 7;11(1):17787. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-97259-7.

Treatment of moderate to severe respiratory COVID-19: a cost-utility analysis.

Congly SE(1)(2), Varughese RA(3), Brown CE(4), Clement FM(5)(6), Saxinger L(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Cumming 
School of Medicine, University of Calgary, 6th Floor, Teaching Research and 
Wellness Building, 3280 Hospital Drive NW, Calgary, AB, T2N 4N1, Canada. 
secongly@ucalgary.ca.
(2)O'Brien Institute of Public Health, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, 
Canada. secongly@ucalgary.ca.
(3)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(4)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)O'Brien Institute of Public Health, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, 
Canada.
(6)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, 
Canada.
(7)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

Despite COVID-19's significant morbidity and mortality, considering 
cost-effectiveness of pharmacologic treatment strategies for hospitalized 
patients remains critical to support healthcare resource decisions within 
budgetary constraints. As such, we calculated the cost-effectiveness of using 
remdesivir and dexamethasone for moderate to severe COVID-19 respiratory 
infections using the United States health care system as a representative model. 
A decision analytic model modelled a base case scenario of a 60-year-old patient 
admitted to hospital with COVID-19. Patients requiring oxygen were considered 
moderate severity, and patients with severe COVID-19 required intubation with 
intensive care. Strategies modelled included giving remdesivir to all patients, 
remdesivir in only moderate and only severe infections, dexamethasone to all 
patients, dexamethasone in severe infections, remdesivir in 
moderate/dexamethasone in severe infections, and best supportive care. Data for 
the model came from the published literature. The time horizon was 1 year; no 
discounting was performed due to the short duration. The perspective was of the 
payer in the United States health care system. Supportive care for 
moderate/severe COVID-19 cost $11,112.98 with 0.7155 quality adjusted life-year 
(QALY) obtained. Using dexamethasone for all patients was the most-cost 
effective with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $980.84/QALY; all 
remdesivir strategies were more costly and less effective. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses showed dexamethasone for all patients was most 
cost-effective in 98.3% of scenarios. Dexamethasone for moderate-severe COVID-19 
infections was the most cost-effective strategy and would have minimal budget 
impact. Based on current data, remdesivir is unlikely to be a cost-effective 
treatment for COVID-19.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-97259-7
PMCID: PMC8423816
PMID: 34493774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Congly reports grants from Gilead Sciences, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Genfit, Allergan, and Sequana Medical and personal fees 
from Intercept Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Paladin Labs and Eisai outside the 
submitted work. Drs. Varughese, Brown, Clement and Saxinger report no potential 
conflicts of interest.