1. Trials. 2020 Jun 8;21(1):499. doi: 10.1186/s13063-020-04422-y.

Evaluating the efficacy and safety of human anti-SARS-CoV-2 convalescent plasma 
in severely ill adults with COVID-19: A structured summary of a study protocol 
for a randomized controlled trial.

Eckhardt CM(1), Cummings MJ(2), Rajagopalan KN(2), Borden S(2), Bitan ZC(2), 
Wolf A(2), Kantor A(2), Briese T(2), Meyer BJ(2), Jacobson SD(2), Scotto D(2), 
Mishra N(2), Philip NM(2), Stotler BA(2), Schwartz J(2), Shaz B(2), Spitalnik 
SL(2), Eisenberger A(2), Hod EA(2), Justman J(2), Cheung K(2), Lipkin WI(2), 
O'Donnell MR(2).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University Medical Center, New York, USA. cme2113@cumc.columbia.edu.
(2)Columbia University Medical Center, New York, USA.

Erratum in
    Trials. 2020 Jun 16;21(1):536.
    Trials. 2020 Nov 17;21(1):927.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
human anti-SARS-CoV-2 convalescent plasma in hospitalized adults with severe 
SARS-CoV-2 infection.
TRIAL DESIGN: This is a prospective, single-center, phase 2, randomized, 
controlled trial that is blinded to participants and clinical outcome assessor.
PARTICIPANTS: Eligible participants include adults (≥ 18 years) with evidence of 
SARS-CoV-2 infection by PCR test of nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swab within 
14 days of randomization, evidence of infiltrates on chest radiography, 
peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2) ≤ 94% on room air, and/or need for 
supplemental oxygen, non-invasive mechanical ventilation, or invasive mechanical 
ventilation, who are willing and able to provide written informed consent prior 
to performing study procedures or who have a legally authorized representative 
available to do so. Exclusion criteria include participation in another clinical 
trial of anti-viral agent(s)* for coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19), receipt 
of any anti-viral agent(s)* with possible activity against SARS-CoV-2 <24 hours 
prior to plasma infusion, mechanical ventilation (including extracorporeal 
membrane oxygenation [ECMO]) for ≥ 5 days, severe multi-organ failure, history 
of allergic reactions to transfused blood products per NHSN/CDC criteria, known 
IgA deficiency, and pregnancy. Included participants will be hospitalized at the 
time of randomization and plasma infusion. *Use of remdesivir as treatment for 
COVID-19 is permitted. The study will be undertaken at Columbia University 
Irving Medical Center in New York, USA.
INTERVENTION AND COMPARATOR: The investigational treatment is anti-SARS-CoV-2 
human convalescent plasma. To procure the investigational treatment, volunteers 
who recovered from COVID-19 will undergo testing to confirm the presence of 
anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody to the spike trimer at a 1:400 dilution. Donors will 
also be screened for transfusion-transmitted infections (e.g. HIV, HBV, HCV, 
WNV, HTLV-I/II, T. cruzi, ZIKV). If donors have experienced COVID-19 symptoms 
within 28 days, they will be screened with a nasopharyngeal swab to confirm they 
are SARS-CoV-2 PCR-negative. Plasma will be collected using standard apheresis 
technology by the New York Blood Center. Study participants will be randomized 
in a 2:1 ratio to receive one unit (200 - 250 mL) of anti-SARS-CoV-2 plasma 
versus one unit (200 - 250 mL) of the earliest available control plasma. The 
control plasma cannot be tested for presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody prior 
to the transfusion, but will be tested for anti- SARS-CoV-2 antibody after the 
transfusion to allow for a retrospective per-protocol analysis.
MAIN OUTCOMES: The primary endpoint is time to clinical improvement. This is 
defined as time from randomization to either discharge from the hospital or 
improvement by one point on the following seven-point ordinal scale, whichever 
occurs first. 1. Not hospitalized with resumption of normal activities 2. Not 
hospitalized, but unable to resume normal activities 3. Hospitalized, not 
requiring supplemental oxygen 4. Hospitalized, requiring supplemental oxygen 5. 
Hospitalized, requiring high-flow oxygen therapy or non-invasive mechanical 
ventilation 6. Hospitalized, requiring ECMO, invasive mechanical ventilation, or 
both 7. Death This scale, designed to assess clinical status over time, was 
based on that recommended by the World Health Organization for use in 
determining efficacy end-points in clinical trials in hospitalized patients with 
COVID-19. A recent clinical trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of 
lopinavir- ritonavir for patients hospitalized with severe COVID-19 used a 
similar ordinal scale, as have recent clinical trials of novel therapeutics for 
severe influenza, including a post-hoc analysis of a trial evaluating immune 
plasma. The primary safety endpoints are cumulative incidence of grade 3 and 4 
adverse events and cumulative incidence of serious adverse events during the 
study period.
RANDOMIZATION: Study participants will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive 
anti-SARS-CoV-2 plasma versus control plasma using a web-based randomization 
platform. Treatment assignments will be generated using randomly permuted blocks 
of different sizes to minimize imbalance while also minimizing predictability.
BLINDING (MASKING): The study participants and the clinicians who will evaluate 
post-treatment outcomes will be blinded to group assignment. The blood bank and 
the clinical research team will not be blinded to group assignment.
NUMBERS TO BE RANDOMIZED (SAMPLE SIZE): We plan to enroll 129 participants, with 
86 in the anti-SARS-CoV-2 arm, and 43 in the control arm. Among the 
participants, we expect ~70% or n = 72 will achieve clinical improvement. This 
will yield an 80% power for a one-sided Wald test at 0.15 level of significance 
under the proportional hazards model with a hazard ratio of 1.5.
TRIAL STATUS: Protocol AAAS9924, Version 17APR2020, 4/17/2020 Start of 
recruitment: April 20, 2020 Recruitment is ongoing.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT04359810 Date of trial registration: 
April 24, 2020 Retrospectively registered FULL PROTOCOL: The full protocol is 
attached as an additional file, accessible from the Trials website (Additional 
file 1). In the interest of expediting dissemination of this material, the 
familiar formatting has been eliminated; this Letter serves as a summary of the 
key elements of the full protocol.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-020-04422-y
PMCID: PMC7276974
PMID: 32513308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.