1. J Investig Med. 2021 Sep 13:jim-2021-001876. doi: 10.1136/jim-2021-001876. 
Online ahead of print.

Variation in clinical characteristics, outcomes, and mortality of hospitalized 
patients with COVID-19 during the second wave of the pandemic: a single-center 
experience.

Mughal MS(1), Kaur IP(2), Wang C(3), Alhashemi R(2), Buemio A(2), Patton CD(2), 
Granet KM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, New Jersey, USA 
mohsinsherazmd@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Medicine, Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, New Jersey, 
USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.

As of February 2, 2021, the USA has 26,431,799 reported COVID-19 cases with 
446,744 deaths. A high mortality rate (15%-40%) was reported among hospitalized 
patients with COVID-19 during the first wave of the pandemic. However, data 
regarding variation in COVID-19-related mortality and severity of illness among 
hospitalized patients with COVID-19 are heterogeneous. In this retrospective 
single-center study, we aimed to investigate the demographic characteristics, 
clinical presentations, disease severity, clinical outcomes, and in-hospital 
mortality of hospitalized patients with COVID-19 during the second wave of the 
pandemic. Adults with reverse transcription-PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection 
were included. In-hospital mortality due to COVID-19 was the primary outcome, 
and intensive care unit admission, acute kidney injury, acute respiratory 
distress syndrome, respiratory failure requiring intubation, and septic shock 
were the secondary outcomes. A total of 101 adult patients were hospitalized 
with COVID-19 during the second wave study period. Of 101 patients, 8 were 
intubated and 6 died. The median duration of hospital stay was 6 days. Patients 
in the second wave were more likely to receive dexamethasone and remdesivir and 
less likely to require invasive mechanical ventilation. In-hospital mortality 
during the second wave was lower (5.9%) compared with the first wave (15.5%). At 
the last follow-up date, 86.1% were discharged alive from the hospital, 5.9% 
died and 7.9% were still in the hospital. Multivariate logistic regression 
showed higher odds of mortality were associated with higher age and elevated 
lactate dehydrogenase peak.

© American Federation for Medical Research 2021. No commercial re-use. See 
rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jim-2021-001876
PMID: 34518318

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.