1. Curr Top Med Chem. 2021 Jul 27. doi: 10.2174/1568026621666210728094019. Online 
ahead of print.

Advancement of prodrug approaches for nucleotide antiviral agents.

Li Y(1), Yang B(1), Quan Y(1), Li Z(1).

Author information:
(1)CAMS Key Laboratory of Antiviral Drug Research, Institute of Medicinal 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical 
College, Beijing 100050, China.

Synthetic nucleoside or nucleotide analogues played a key role to the 
development of antiviral agents in past decades. However, low membrane 
permeability and insufficient cellular phosphorylation impaired the biological 
activity of polar nucleoside drugs because they have to penetrate the cell 
membrane and be phosphorylated to active metabolite in stepwise by intracellular 
enzymes. To overcome these limitations, diverse lipophilic prodrug modifications 
based on nucleoside mono-, di-, and triphosphate were designed and put into 
practice to efficiently deliver nucleoside into the target site, and bypass the 
rate-limited phosphorylation step. As the most successful prodrug strategy, 
ProTide technology has led to the discovery of three FDA-approved antiviral 
agents including sofosbuvir, tenofovir alafenadmide, and remdesivir which has 
been authorized for emergency use in patients of COVID-19 in the US. In recent 
years, nucleoside di- and triphosphate prodrugs have also made the significant 
progress. This review will focus on the summary of design approach and metabolic 
activation path of different nucleotide prodrug strategies. The potential 
application of nucleotide prodrugs for treatment of COVID-19 was also described 
due to the pandemic of SARS-CoV-2.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1568026621666210728094019
PMID: 34323189