1. Drugs. 2020 Sep;80(13):1355-1363. doi: 10.1007/s40265-020-01378-w.

Remdesivir: First Approval.

Lamb YN(1).

Author information:
(1)Springer Nature, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, Auckland, 0754, New 
Zealand. dru@adis.com.

The antiviral agent remdesivir (VekluryÂ®; Gilead Sciences), nucleotide analogue 
prodrug, has broad-spectrum activity against viruses from several families. 
Having demonstrated potent antiviral activity against coronaviruses in 
preclinical studies, remdesivir emerged as a candidate drug for the treatment of 
the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute 
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, during the current 
global pandemic. Phase III evaluation of remdesivir in the treatment of COVID-19 
commenced in early 2020 and has thus far yielded promising results. In late May 
2020, Taiwan conditionally approved the use of remdesivir in patients with 
severe COVID-19. This was followed by a rapid succession of conditional 
approvals in various countries/regions including the EU and Canada. Preceding 
these conditional approvals, an emergency use authorization for remdesivir had 
been granted in the USA (on 1 May 2020) and a special approval for emergency use 
was granted in Japan (on 7 May 2020). This article summarizes the milestones in 
the development of remdesivir leading to its first conditional approval for the 
treatment of COVID-19.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-020-01378-w
PMCID: PMC7459246
PMID: 32870481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Yvette Lamb is a salaried employee of Adis 
International Ltd/Springer Nature and declares no relevant conflicts of 
interest. All authors contributed to the review and are responsible for the 
article content.