1. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2021;1318:499-515. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-63761-3_29.

Dietary Supplements for COVID-19.

Mullin GE(1)(2), Limektkai B(3), Wang L(4), Hanaway P(5), Marks L(6), 
Giovannucci E(7).

Author information:
(1)The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. gmullin1@jhmi.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD, USA. 
gmullin1@jhmi.edu.
(3)The University of California Los Angeles School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(4)The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)Cleveland Clinic Center for Functional Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(6)Integrative Nutrition, New York, NY, USA.
(7)The Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a highly contagious infectious disease 
that can rapidly escalate to respiratory failure and death. It has infected 
millions of people worldwide. The trajectory of this disease continues to 
progress in some areas of the United States and worldwide. The Institute for 
Health Metrics now predicts a resurgence of infections in the fall of 2020. The 
pathogenesis of COVID-19 includes an inflammatory phase with either resolution 
or the potential to accelerate to a cytokine storm, characterized by high 
interleukin (IL)-6 and other inflammatory markers. COVID-19 is a condition 
without a gold-standard treatment. The US Federal Drug Administration (FDA) 
issued an emergency use authorization for remdesivir in severe cases of 
COVID-19, which shortened the recovery time in hospitalized patients with lower 
respiratory tract infection in one study. Although several vaccine trials are 
underway, no vaccines are available for primary prevention of COVID-19 at this 
time. Dietary supplement sales have dramatically risen during the COVID-19 
pandemic despite depressed economic conditions. Commonly used immune-modulating 
dietary supplements, including vitamin D, ascorbic acid, zinc, and melatonin, 
are reviewed in this manuscript highlighting biological plausibility for 
salutary benefit against COVID-19. Ongoing clinical trials recruiting subjects 
at the time of this writing are provided for each dietary supplement.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-63761-3_29
PMID: 33973197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]