1. Discoveries (Craiova). 2020 Apr 26;8(2):e108. doi: 10.15190/d.2020.5.

COVID-19: Review of Epidemiology and Potential Treatments Against 2019 Novel 
Coronavirus.

Jan H(1), Faisal S(2), Khan A(1), Khan S(3), Usman H(1), Liaqat R(4), Shah 
SA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Bacha Khan University, Charsadda, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Botany, Bacha Khan University, Charsadda, Pakistan.

An epidemic of extreme respiratory deterrence, pneumonia and shortness of 
breath, the SARS-CoV-2 viral infection began in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China in 
December 2019, and rapidly spread across China and beyond, with human to human 
transmission. On February 12, 2020, World Health Organization officially named 
the new coronavirus disease as coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19). Most COVID-19 
patients were diagnosed with pneumonia and many were treated using Chinese 
medicines and other secondary therapies. As of April 22, 2020, the total figure 
of infected patients has crossed 2.6 million people worldwide with over 180,000 
deaths and 700,000 patients that have recovered. Preliminary reports suggest 
that certain drugs, such as chloroquine and antiviral nucleotide analogues such 
as remdesivir, which inhibit viral replication, can target the new coronavirus, 
although their usefulness in the clinic is still under debate. An expert US 
committee developed the US NIH guidelines for COVID-19 treatment, which was just 
released and will be regularly updated. This manuscript reviews the 
epidemiology, etiology, mortality, COVID-19 clinical symptoms, and potential 
therapeutic drugs, while highlighting the seriousness and damage-induced by 
SARS-CoV-2.

Copyright Â© 2020, Jan et al. and Applied Systems.

DOI: 10.15190/d.2020.5
PMCID: PMC7199242
PMID: 32377559

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.