1. J Med Virol. 2021 Sep;93(9):5367-5375. doi: 10.1002/jmv.27049. Epub 2021 May 31.

Treatment patterns in US patients hospitalized with COVID-19 and pulmonary 
involvement.

Best JH(1), Kong AM(2), Kaplan-Lewis E(3), Brawley OW(4), Baden R(5), Zazzali 
JL(1), Miller KS(6), Loveless J(6), Jariwala-Parikh K(2), Mohan SV(1).

Author information:
(1)US Medical Affairs, Genentech, Inc, South San Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Life Sciences, IBM Watson Health, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, NYC Health and Hospitals, Elmhurst Hospital Center, 
Queens, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Alameda Health System-Highland Hospital, Oakland, 
California, USA.
(6)Idaho Pulmonary Associates, St. Luke's Health System, Boise, Idaho, USA.

This study describes the baseline characteristics and treatment patterns of US 
patients hospitalized with a diagnosis of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) 
and pulmonary involvement. Patients hospitalized with pulmonary involvement due 
to COVID-19 (first hospitalization) were identified in the IBM Explorys® 
electronic health records database. Demographics, baseline clinical 
characteristics, and in-hospital medications were assessed. For evaluation of 
in-hospital medications, results were stratified by race, geographic region, 
age, and month of admission. Of 6564 hospitalized patients with COVID-19-related 
pulmonary involvement, 50.4% were male, and mean (SD) age was 62.6 (16.4) years; 
75.2% and 23.6% of patients were from the South and Midwest, respectively, and 
50.2% of patients were African American. Compared with African American 
patients, a numerically higher proportion of White patients received 
dexamethasone (19.7% vs. 31.8%, respectively), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs (NSAIDs; 27.1% vs. 34.9%), bronchodilators (19.8% vs. 29.5%), and 
remdesivir (9.3% vs. 21.0%). Numerically higher proportions of White patients 
than African American patients received select medications in the South but not 
in the Midwest. Compared with patients in the South, a numerically higher 
proportion of patients in the Midwest received dexamethasone (20.1% vs. 34.5%, 
respectively), NSAIDs (19.6% vs. 55.7%), bronchodilators (15.9% vs. 41.3%), and 
remdesivir (10.6% vs. 23.1%). Inpatient use of hydroxychloroquine decreased over 
time, whereas the use of dexamethasone and remdesivir increased over time. Among 
US patients predominantly from the South and Midwest hospitalized with COVID-19 
and pulmonary involvement, differences were seen in medication use between 
different races, geographic regions, and months of hospitalization.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Medical Virology Published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.27049
PMCID: PMC8242555
PMID: 33913536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Jennie H. Best, Shalini V. Mohan, and James L. 
Zazzali are employees and shareholders of Genentech, Inc. Amanda M. Kong was an 
employee of IBM Watson Health at the time of this study and manuscript 
preparation. Krutika Jariwala‐Parikh is an employee of IBM Watson Health. Emma 
Kaplan‐Lewis is a principal investigator for a Genentech‐sponsored clinical 
trial at Elmhurst Hospital Center, with no direct financial support received, 
and has served on medical advisory boards for ViiV Pharmaceuticals. Otis W. 
Brawley reports no conflicts of interest. Rachel Baden is a principal 
investigator for a Genentech‐sponsored clinical trial at Highland Hospital, with 
no direct financial support received. Karen S. Miller is a principal 
investigator for a Genentech‐sponsored clinical trial at St Luke′s Health 
System, with no direct financial support received. James Loveless has served as 
an investigator for Genentech‐sponsored clinical trials, and as an advisor and 
on a speaker′s bureau for Genentech, all outside of the submitted work.