1. Germs. 2020 Sep 1;10(4):218-228. doi: 10.18683/germs.2020.1208. eCollection 2020 
Sep.

COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic: fears, facts and preventive measures.

Ayenigbara IO(1), Adeleke OR(2), Ayenigbara GO(3), Adegboro JS(3), Olofintuyi 
OO(4).

Author information:
(1)M Ed, Doctoral Candidate, School and Community Health Education Unit, 
Department of Health Education, University of Ibadan, Ajibode street number 022, 
postal code 200284, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(2)M Ed, Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education, Adekunle Ajasin 
University Akungba-Akoko, Adefarati street number 001, postal address 342111, 
Ondo State, Nigeria.
(3)PhD, Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education, Adekunle Ajasin 
University Akungba-Akoko, Adefarati street number 001, postal address 342111, 
Ondo State, Nigeria.
(4)BSc Ed, Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education, Adekunle Ajasin 
University Akungba-Akoko, Adefarati street number 001, postal address 342111, 
Ondo State, Nigeria.

The aim of this review is to give a synopsis on the coronavirus disease 2019 
(COVID-19) pandemic, with major focus on the preventive measures. Ever since the 
influenza pandemic of 1918, and the second world war of (1939-1945), the world 
has not been faced with a common problem in recent memory like the COVID-19 
pandemic. The unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic is caused by infection with a 
viral pathogen, the nascent severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
(SARS-CoV-2), and is characterized by respiratory failure in severe cases. The 
communicability period of COVID-19 varies, but it is usually between 2-14 days, 
and the major signs and symptoms of COVID-19 are high temperature (fever), 
severe and consistent cough, and serious breathing problems in severe cases, 
however, complications result in the serious inflammation of the lungs, and 
organ malfunction occurs in patients with comorbidities and health conditions 
especially diabetes, heart disease and obesity. With high virulence and 
contagious nature of SARS-CoV-2, over 11.4 million confirmed cases and over 
533,780 deaths have occurred as a result of COVID-19 globally, with over 6.1 
million recoveries as of 6th July 2020. Presently, there is no known cure for 
COVID-19, however, remdesivir has been approved for emergency use for the 
treatment of COVID-19 patients by the Food and Drug Administration, a United 
States federal regulatory body (FDA), while various clinical trial treatments 
and vaccines are being tried globally. The world is faced with containing the 
spread of the infection, and this review revealed that thorough hand washing 
with antiseptic soap and running water and usage of alcohol hand sanitizer, 
frequent surfaces cleaning, strict adherence to social distancing, regular 
respiratory hygiene, wearing of protective face masks, frequent testing, 
self-isolation, quarantine and rigorous contact tracing will help to prevent 
further spread, and control the transmission of the viral pathogen. It is 
however strongly recommended that only the strict compliance to the mitigative 
and preventive measures provided above will yield the desired results in the 
prevention, management and control of the COVID-19 pandemic.

GERMS.

DOI: 10.18683/germs.2020.1208
PMCID: PMC7572217
PMID: 33134200

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: All authors â€“ none to 
declare.