1. Am J Transplant. 2020 Nov;20(11):3072-3080. doi: 10.1111/ajt.16241. Epub 2020 
Sep 5.

COVID-19 in lung transplant recipients: A single center case series from New 
York City.

Aversa M(1), Benvenuto L(1), Anderson M(1), Shah L(1), Robbins H(1), Pereira 
M(2), Scheffert J(3), Carroll M(1), Hum J(1), Nolan M(1), Reilly G(1), Lemaitre 
P(4), Stanifer BP(4), D'Ovidio F(4), Sonett J(4), Arcasoy S(1); From the 
Columbia University Lung Transplant Program.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine, Department of 
Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Columbia University 
Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York, 
USA.
(4)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Columbia University 
Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.

There are limited data describing COVID-19 in lung transplant recipients. We 
performed a single center, retrospective case series study of lung transplant 
patients followed by the Columbia Lung Transplant program who tested positive 
for SARS-CoV-2 between March 19 and May 19, 2020. Thirty-two lung transplant 
patients developed mild (16%), moderate (44%), or severe (41%) COVID-19. The 
median age of patients was 65 years, and the median time from lung transplant 
was 5.6 years. Symptoms included cough (66%), dyspnea (50%), fever (47%), and 
gastrointestinal upset (44%). Patients received hydroxychloroquine (84%), 
azithromycin (75%), augmented steroids (44%), tocilizumab (19%), and remdesivir 
(9%). Eleven patients (34%) died at a median time of 14 days from admission. 
Complications during admission included: acute kidney injury (63%), 
transaminitis (31%), shock (31%), acute respiratory distress syndrome (25%), 
neurological events (25%), arrhythmias (22%), and venous thromboembolism (9%). 
Compared to patients with moderate COVID-19, patients with severe COVID-19 had 
higher peak white blood cell counts (15.8 vs 7 × 103 /uL, P = .019), C-reactive 
protein (198 vs. 107 mg/L, P = .010) and D-dimer (8.6 vs. 2.1 ug/mL, P = .004) 
levels, and lower nadir lymphocyte counts (0.09 vs. 0.4 × 103 /uL, P = .006). 
COVID-19 is associated with severe illness and a high mortality rate in lung 
transplant recipients.

© 2020 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society of 
Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.16241
PMCID: PMC7436464
PMID: 32881315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]