1. Front Med (Lausanne). 2020 Dec 22;7:596587. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2020.596587. 
eCollection 2020.

The Need for Antiviral Drugs for Pandemic Coronaviruses From a Global Health 
Perspective.

Villamagna AH(1), Gore SJ(1), Lewis JS(1), Doggett JS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Oregon Health & Science University School of 
Medicine, Portland, OR, United States.
(2)Department of Hospital and Specialty Medicine, VA Portland Healthcare System, 
Portland, OR, United States.

Respiratory failure due to SARS-CoV-2 has caused widespread mortality, creating 
an urgent need for effective treatments and a long-term need for antivirals for 
future emergent coronaviruses. Pharmacotherapy for respiratory viruses has 
largely been unsuccessful with the exception of early treatment of influenza 
viruses, which shortens symptom duration and prevents infection in close 
contacts. Under the rapidly evolving circumstances of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
most clinical trials of experimental treatments in the United States have 
focused on later stages of the disease process. Worldwide, the clinical studies 
of the most impactful drugs, remdesivir and dexamethasone in ACTT-1, RECOVERY, 
and Solidarity, have studied hospitalized patients. Less than half of clinical 
trials in the U.S. have investigated oral agents, and the majority have taken 
place in hospitals at a disease stage where the viral load is already 
decreasing. The limited success of treatments for respiratory viruses and the 
viral dynamics of COVID-19 suggest that an antiviral therapy with the greatest 
impact against pandemic coronaviruses would be orally administered, 
well-tolerated, target a highly conserved viral protein or host-coronavirus 
interaction and could be used effectively throughout the world, including 
resource-poor settings. We examine the treatment of respiratory viral infections 
and current clinical trials for COVID-19 to provide a framework for effective 
antiviral therapy and prevention of future emergent coronaviruses and call 
attention to the need for continued preclinical drug discovery.

Copyright Â© 2020 Villamagna, Gore, Lewis and Doggett.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2020.596587
PMCID: PMC7783399
PMID: 33415116

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.